# prologmath

As a programmer studying mathematics (undergraduate abstract algebra), I often am faced with the challenge "Given X, prove Y, using any of the facts you've seen in the book thus far". Let's say the structure of a 'fact' is "Given A, one can prove B" and a knowledge base (KB) is a list of such facts. Automated theorem proving seeks to find the proof given KB, and I am not interested in that. My more modest goal is to just filter KB to identify facts that are possibly relevant for the task at hand. I think of this as a unification problem: given an X at hand, identify facts where X matches A. This could only give me candidates for the first step in a proof, but I think it would be a helpful tool. In summary, I'm seeking a principled way to take math notes that allows me to query what I've written down in a useful way.

To show a concrete example of what I'm talking about, I tried a naive implementation in Prolog using the first chapter of my algebra textbook.

What work has been done on this front? The relevant search term seems to be "Mathematical Knowledge Management" but my limited literature search in that field didn't reveal find anything as restricted as the problem I describe (text search through 500+ pg review on MKM gave no interesting hits for "unification" or "pattern match").

Unification seems like a place where logical programming would excel in. I suspect first order unification would be sufficient for most of the things I wish to encode. I also feel like, with the subject matter of abstract mathematics, a strong type system would also be helpful for pruning the search space, especially given that I want to store a large number of facts. This led me to consider Mercury, although I'm hesitant to try picking up a language that has such a small community. Outside of that, I feel like Prolog could be appropriate, or a unification implementation in some language I'm more comfortable with (e.g. Haskell, Java, Python). So if this problem has not been solved already, I would appreciate feedback for a language in which to try addressing it.
